now Oh Israel listen to the statutes and
the judgments which I teach you to
observe that you may live and go in and
possess the land which the Lord God of
your father's is giving you you shall
not add to the word which I commend you
nor take from it that you may keep the
commandments of the Lord your God which
I commend you your eyes have seen what
the Lord did at the LPR for the Lord
your God has destroyed from among you
all the men who followed they love pure
but you who held fast to the Lord your
God are alive today every one of you
surely I have taught you statutes and
judgments just as the Lord my God
commanded me that you should act
according to them in the land which you
go to possess therefore be careful to
observe them for this is your wisdom and
your understanding
in the sight of the people's who will
hear all these statutes and say surely
this great nation is a wise and
understanding people for what great
nation is there that has God so near to
it as the Lord our God is to us for
whatever reason we may call upon him and
what great nation is there that has such
statutes and righteous judgments as are
in all this law which I set before you
this day only take heed to yourself and
diligently keep yourself lest you forget
the things your eyes have seen unless
they depart from your heart all the days
of your life and teach them to your
children and your grandchildren
especially concerning the day you stood
before the Lord your God in Horeb when
the Lord said to me
yea they're the people to me and I will
let them hear my words that they may
learn to fear me all the days they live
on the earth and that they may teach
their children then you came here and
stood at the foot of the mountain and
the mountain burned with fire to the
midst of heaven
with darkness cloud and thick darkness
and the Lord spoke to you out of the
midst of the fire you heard the sound of
the words but saw no form you only heard
a voice so he declared to you his
covenant which he commanded you to
perform the Ten Commandments and he
wrote them on two tablets of stone and
the LORD commanded me at that time to
teach you statutes and judgments that
you might observe them in the land which
you cross over to possess take careful
heed to yourselves for you saw no form
when the Lord spoke to you at Orab out
of the midst of the fire unless you act
corruptly and make for yourselves a
carved image in the form of any figure
the likeness of male or female the
likeness of any animal that is on the
earth or the likeness of any weed bird
that flies in the air
the likeness of anything that creeps on
the ground or the likeness of any fish
that is in the water beneath the earth
and take heed lest you lift your eyes to
heaven and when you see the Sun the moon
and the stars all the hosts of heaven
you feel driven to worship them and
serve them which the Lord your God has
given to all the peoples under the whole
heaven as a heritage but the Lord has
taken you and brought you out of the
iron furnace out of Egypt to be his
people
and inheritance as you are this day
furthermore the Lord was angry with me
for your sakes and swore that I would
not cross over the Jordan and that I
would not enter the good land which the
Lord your God is giving you as an
inheritance but I must die in this land
I must not cross over the Jordan but you
shall cross over and possess that good
land take heed to yourselves lest you
forget the Covenant of the Lord your God
which he made with you and make for
yourselves a carved image in the form of
anything which the Lord your God has
forbidden you for the Lord your God is a
consuming fire a jealous God
when you beget children and
grandchildren and have grown old and
land and act corruptly and make a carved
image in the form of anything and do
evil in the sight of the Lord your God
to provoke him to anger I called heaven
and earth to witness against you this
day that you will soon uh turley perish
from the land which you cross over the
Jordan to possess you will not prolong
your days in it but will be utterly
destroyed and the Lord will scatter you
among the peoples and you will be left
few in number among the nations where
the Lord will drive you and there you
will serve God's the work of men's hands
wood and stone which neither see nor
hear nor eat nor smell but from there
you will seek the Lord your God and you
will find him if you seek him with all
your heart with all your soul
when you are in distress and all these
things come upon you in the latter days
when you turn to the Lord your God and
obey his voice for the Lord your God is
a merciful God
he will not foresee you nor destroy you
nor forget the Covenant of your father's
which he swore to them for ask now
concerning the days that are past which
were before you since the day that God
created man on the earth and asked from
one end of heaven to the other whether
any great thing like this has happened
or anything like it has been heard
did any people ever hear the voice of
God speaking out of the midst of the
fire as you have heard and live or did
God ever try to go and take for himself
a nation from the midst of another
nation by trials by signs by wonders at
war
by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm
and by great terrors according to all
that the Lord your God did for you in
Egypt before your eyes to you it was
shown that you might know that the Lord
Himself is God there is none other
besides him
out of heaven he let you hear his voice
that he might instruct you on earth he
showed you his great fire and you heard
his words out of the midst of the fire
and because he loved your fathers
therefore he chose their descendants
after them and he brought you out of
Egypt with his presence
with his mighty power driving out from
before you nations greater and mightier
than you to bring you in to give you
their land as an inheritance as it is
this day therefore know this day
and consider it in your heart that the
Lord Himself is God in heaven above and
on the earth beneath there is no other
you shall therefore keep his statutes
and his commandments which I command you
today that it may go well with you and
with your children after you and that
you may prolong your days in the land
which the Lord your God is giving you
for all time then Moses set apart three
cities on this side of the Jordan toward
the rising of the Sun but the manslayer
might flee there who kills his neighbor
unintentionally about having hated him
in time past and that by fleeing to one
of these cities he might live beaser in
the wilderness on the plateau for the
rubra nights ramoth in Gilead for the
gardens and Golan impatiens for the
manna sites now this is the law which
Moses set before the children of Israel
these are the testimonies the statutes
and the judgments which Moses spoke to
the children of Israel after they came
out of Egypt on this side of the Jordan
in the valley opposite Beth peel in the
land of Sion king of the amorite s-- who
dwelt at Heshbon whom Moses and the
children of Israel defeated after they
came out of Egypt and they took
possession of his land and the land of
Arg
king of bation two kings of the amorite
s-- who were on this side of the Jordan
toward the rising of the Sun from Araroa
which is on the bank of the river arnon
even to Mount Zion
that is Harley and all the plane on the
east side of the Jordan as far as the
sea of a rubber below the slopes of
Pisgah